{"StudyObjective": "To examine how conformity decisions are evaluated in the developing brain and unfold across social contexts, particularly when adolescents’ own opinions conflict with the opinions of their parents, peers, or both.", "fMRITasks": [{"TaskName": "Attitude Conformity task", "TaskDescription": "Participants were shown parent and peer attitudes that conflicted with their own attitudes and were instructed to indicate who they agree with.", "DesignDetails": "Participants completed the Attitude Conformity task during fMRI. On each trial, participants first viewed a behavior they previously rated (but were not reminded of their original ratings) (2 s). Following a jittered inter-stimulus interval (  M   = 2 s), participants were then shown their parents’ and peers’ ratings on each behavior and instructed to choose which person they agreed with most (maximum of 5 s). Participants pressed the left index finger when they agreed with their parent or right index finger when they agreed with their peer. Participants’ choices were self-paced, such that the task advanced to the next behavior upon participant response. Behaviors were presented in a random order and were separated by jittered inter-trial fixation periods (  M   = 2 s). Conformity was operationalized as choosing the person whose rating conflicted with the adolescent’s original rating, whereas resistance was operationalized as choosing the person whose rating matched the adolescent’s original rating.", "Conditions": ["Parent Conflict", "Peer Conflict", "Mutual Conflict"], "TaskMetrics": ["Conformity", "Resistance"], "RestingState": "false", "TaskDuration": "2 s"}, {"TaskName": "fMRI session", "TaskDescription": "Participants underwent fMRI approximately two weeks after the behavioral session. Before the scan, participants were introduced to an age- and gender-matched peer who they were told was also participating in the study and had rated the same behaviors. Participants were shown a profile page for the peer which displayed a picture (drawn from the NIMH Child Emotional Faces Picture Set; (  )), information about their hobbies, and a self-description handwritten by the peer. During a separate task, they also spoke to and heard the peer talk to them ( ). In reality, the peer was a confederate, and was not actually present at the scan. Participants were shown a behavior they previously rated (but were not reminded of their original ratings) (2 s). Following a jittered inter-stimulus interval (  M   = 2 s), participants were then shown their parents’ and peers’ ratings on each behavior and instructed to choose which person they agreed with most (maximum of 5 s). Participants pressed the left index finger when they agreed with their parent or right index finger when they agreed with their peer. Participants’ choices were self-paced, such that the task advanced to the next behavior upon participant response. Behaviors were presented in a random order and were separated by jittered inter-trial fixation periods (  M   = 2 s). Conformity was operationalized as choosing the person whose rating conflicted with the adolescent’s original rating, whereas resistance was operationalized as choosing the person whose rating matched the adolescent’s original rating.", "DesignDetails": "Imaging data were collected using a 3 T Siemens Magnetom Trio MRI scanner. The scan consisted of T2*-weighted echoplanar images (EPI; slice thickness = 3 mm; 38 slices; TR = 2 s; TE = 25 ms; matrix = 92 × 92; FOV = 230 mm; voxel size = 2.5 × 2.5 × 3 mm ). Structural scans were also acquired, including a T1* magnetization-prepared rapid-acquisition gradient echo (MPRAGE; 192 slices; TR = 1.9 s; TE = 2.32 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 256 × 256; sagittal acquisition plane; slice thickness = .9 mm) and a T2*-weighted, matched-bandwidth (MBW), high resolution anatomical scan (38 slices; TR = 4 s; TE = 64 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 192 × 192; slice thickness = 3 mm). To maximize brain coverage and reduce signal drop-out in orbital and temporal regions, MBW and EPI images were acquired at an oblique axial orientation. Preprocessing steps were completed utilizing the FMRIB Software Library (FSL v6.0). Preprocessing included: skull stripping of all structural and functional images using BET; slice-to-slice head motion correction using MCFLIRT; sequential co-registration of EPI images to the MBW, MPRAGE, and standard stereotactic space defined by the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) and the International Consortium for Brain Mapping using FLIRT; removing low frequency drift across the EPI time-series using high-pass temporal filtering with a 128 s cutoff; and spatial smoothing using a 6 mm Gaussian kernel, full-width-at-half maximum. Independent component analysis (ICA) were performed on the individual level using MELODIC combined with an automated component classifier ( ) (Neyman-Pearson threshold = .3) in order to remove artifact signal (e.g. motion, physiological noise) from the functional data.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": [], "RestingState": "false", "TaskDuration": null}, {"TaskName": "fMRI data acquisition and preprocessing", "TaskDescription": "Imaging data were collected using a 3 T Siemens Magnetom Trio MRI scanner. The scan consisted of T2*-weighted echoplanar images (EPI; slice thickness = 3 mm; 38 slices; TR = 2 s; TE = 25 ms; matrix = 92 × 92; FOV = 230 mm; voxel size = 2.5 × 2.5 × 3 mm ). Structural scans were also acquired, including a T1* magnetization-prepared rapid-acquisition gradient echo (MPRAGE; 192 slices; TR = 1.9 s; TE = 2.32 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 256 × 256; sagittal acquisition plane; slice thickness = .9 mm) and a T2*-weighted, matched-bandwidth (MBW), high resolution anatomical scan (38 slices; TR = 4 s; TE = 64 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 192 × 192; slice thickness = 3 mm). To maximize brain coverage and reduce signal drop-out in orbital and temporal regions, MBW and EPI images were acquired at an oblique axial orientation. Preprocessing steps were completed utilizing the FMRIB Software Library (FSL v6.0). Preprocessing included: skull stripping of all structural and functional images using BET; slice-to-slice head motion correction using MCFLIRT; sequential co-registration of EPI images to the MBW, MPRAGE, and standard stereotactic space defined by the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) and the International Consortium for Brain Mapping using FLIRT; removing low frequency drift across the EPI time-series using high-pass temporal filtering with a 128 s cutoff; and spatial smoothing using a 6 mm Gaussian kernel, full-width-at-half maximum. Independent component analysis (ICA) were performed on the individual level using MELODIC combined with an automated component classifier ( ) (Neyman-Pearson threshold = .3) in order to remove artifact signal (e.g. motion, physiological noise) from the functional data.", "DesignDetails": "Imaging data were collected using a 3 T Siemens Magnetom Trio MRI scanner. The scan consisted of T2*-weighted echoplanar images (EPI; slice thickness = 3 mm; 38 slices; TR = 2 s; TE = 25 ms; matrix = 92 × 92; FOV = 230 mm; voxel size = 2.5 × 2.5 × 3 mm ). Structural scans were also acquired, including a T1* magnetization-prepared rapid-acquisition gradient echo (MPRAGE; 192 slices; TR = 1.9 s; TE = 2.32 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 256 × 256; sagittal acquisition plane; slice thickness = .9 mm) and a T2*-weighted, matched-bandwidth (MBW), high resolution anatomical scan (38 slices; TR = 4 s; TE = 64 ms; FOV = 230 mm; matrix = 192 × 192; slice thickness = 3 mm). To maximize brain coverage and reduce signal drop-out in orbital and temporal regions, MBW and EPI images were acquired at an oblique axial orientation. Preprocessing steps were completed utilizing the FMRIB Software Library (FSL v6.0). Preprocessing included: skull stripping of all structural and functional images using BET; slice-to-slice head motion correction using MCFLIRT; sequential co-registration of EPI images to the MBW, MPRAGE, and standard stereotactic space defined by the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) and the International Consortium for Brain Mapping using FLIRT; removing low frequency drift across the EPI time-series using high-pass temporal filtering with a 128 s cutoff; and spatial smoothing using a 6 mm Gaussian kernel, full-width-at-half maximum. Independent component analysis (ICA) were performed on the individual level using MELODIC combined with an automated component classifier ( ) (Neyman-Pearson threshold = .3) in order to remove artifact signal (e.g. motion, physiological noise) from the functional data.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": [], "RestingState": "false", "TaskDuration": null}, {"TaskName": "fMRI data analysis", "TaskDescription": "The Attitude Conformity fMRI task was modeled as an event-related design using the Statistical Parametric Mapping software package (SPM8; Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, Institute of Neurology, London, UK). In parallel with the behavioral analyses, we specified two separate individual level, fixed-effects models. Across both models, covariates of non-interest included: six motion parameters; volumes containing excessive motion (i.e., greater than 2 mm slice-to-slice movement along any axis); and the periods where the behavior was presented without the ratings (duration = 2 s). All adolescents had less than 2 mm slice-to-slice head motion on >95 % of total volumes. The jittered inter-stimulus and inter-trial periods were not modeled and therefore served as an implicit baseline for the task conditions of interest. First, we examined the effects of unconstructive and constructive behaviors at the whole-brain level. Six conditions of interest were defined based on the three attitude conflict conditions (Parent Conflict, Peer Conflict, Mutual Conflict), each modeled separately for unconstructive and constructive behaviors. Participants’ dichotomous choice of peer or parent on a given trial (1=peer, 0=parent) was included as a parametric modulator for the six conditions to identify brain regions that differentially respond to endorsing peer vs. parent attitudes. Given the person whose attitude conflicted with the participant’s attitude could either be the peer (Peer Conflict) or the parent (Parent Conflict), this PM was used to examine neural differences in aligning with the person whose attitude conflicted with (i.e., conformity) or matched (i.e., resistance) the participant’s original attitude on the Peer Conflict and Parent Conflict condition. In addition to our primary analyses, we performed exploratory analyses to test for neural differences in aligning with peer attitudes (i.e., peer conformity) or parent attitudes (i.e., parent conformity) on the Mutual Conflict condition, where conformity was forced as both parents and peers endorsed attitudes that conflicted with the participant’s original attitudes. Events were modeled using the onset of each event, with a duration equal to participants’ response time to make a decision on that trial. Next, we examined the effects of positive and negative influence at the whole-brain level. Four conditions of interest were defined based on the type of influence (negative influence, positive influence), modeled separately for parents (i.e., Parent Conflict trials) and peers (i.e., Peer Conflict trials). Mutual Conflict trials—in which adolescents were forced to conform (i.e., there was no choice to resist)—were modeled as a separate condition of non-interest. The absolute value of the difference between the influencer’s rating and adolescent’s original rating (range: 1–5) was included as a parametric modulator for the four conditions to identify brain regions that track increases in the level of positive and negative influence. Events were modeled using the onset of each trial, with a duration equal to participants’ response time to make a decision on that trial. Our events of interest in this model did not separately model the choice (i.e., conform or resist), but instead focused on the entire decision phase of each trial. Finally, to test how neural tracking of the level of negative vs. positive influence is associated with overall rates of conformity, we conducted a whole-brain, regression analysis at the group level using the average frequency of conformity on negative vs. positive influence trials as a regressor. All individual subject contrasts of interest were submitted to random-effects, group-level analyses at the whole-brain level in GLMFlex (  http://mrtools.mgh.harvard.edu/index.php/GLM  _Flex), corrected for multiple comparisons. Specifically, we ran a Monte Carlo simulation using the updated version (April 2016) of the 3dFWHMx and 3dClustSim programs from the AFNI software package ( ) for each group-level contrast of interest. The simulation resulted in a minimum cluster size threshold ranging from 82–142 voxels across all contrasts of interest in the Type of Behavior Analysis and 86–129 voxels across all contrasts of interest in the Type of Influence Analysis at the whole brain level, both corresponding to   p   < .05, Family-Wise Error (FWE) corrected given a voxel-wise threshold of   p   < .005. All results are available on NeuroVault ( ) (see   https://neurovault.org/collections/QCNBXGZR/  ).", "DesignDetails": "The Attitude Conformity fMRI task was modeled as an event-related design using the Statistical Parametric Mapping software package (SPM8; Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, Institute of Neurology, London, UK). In parallel with the behavioral analyses, we specified two separate individual level, fixed-effects models. Across both models, covariates of non-interest included: six motion parameters; volumes containing excessive motion (i.e., greater than 2 mm slice-to-slice movement along any axis); and the periods where the behavior was presented without the ratings (duration = 2 s). All adolescents had less than 2 mm slice-to-slice head motion on >95 % of total volumes. The jittered inter-stimulus and inter-trial periods were not modeled and therefore served as an implicit baseline for the task conditions of interest. First, we examined the effects of unconstructive and constructive behaviors at the whole-brain level. Six conditions of interest were defined based on the three attitude conflict conditions (Parent Conflict, Peer Conflict, Mutual Conflict), each modeled separately for unconstructive and constructive behaviors. Participants’ dichotomous choice of peer or parent on a given trial (1=peer, 0=parent) was included as a parametric modulator for the six conditions to identify brain regions that differentially respond to endorsing peer vs. parent attitudes. Given the person whose attitude conflicted with the participant’s attitude could either be the peer (Peer Conflict) or the parent (Parent Conflict), this PM was used to examine neural differences in aligning with the person whose attitude conflicted with (i.e., conformity) or matched (i.e., resistance) the participant’s original attitude on the Peer Conflict and Parent Conflict condition. In addition to our primary analyses, we performed exploratory analyses to test for neural differences in aligning with peer attitudes (i.e., peer conformity) or parent attitudes (i.e., parent conformity) on the Mutual Conflict condition, where conformity was forced as both parents and peers endorsed attitudes that conflicted with the participant’s original attitudes. Events were modeled using the onset of each event, with a duration equal to participants’ response time to make a decision on that trial. Next, we examined the effects of positive and negative influence at the whole-brain level. Four conditions of interest were defined based on the type of influence (negative influence, positive influence), modeled separately for parents (i.e., Parent Conflict trials) and peers (i.e., Peer Conflict trials). Mutual Conflict trials—in which adolescents were forced to conform (i.e., there was no choice to resist)—were modeled as a separate condition of non-interest. The absolute value of the difference between the influencer’s rating and adolescent’s original rating (range: 1–5) was included as a parametric modulator for the four conditions to identify brain regions that track increases in the level of positive and negative influence. Events were modeled using the onset of each trial, with a duration equal to participants’ response time to make a decision on that trial. Our events of interest in this model did not separately model the choice (i.e., conform or resist), but instead focused on the entire decision phase of each trial. Finally, to test how neural tracking of the level of negative vs. positive influence is associated with overall rates of conformity, we conducted a whole-brain, regression analysis at the group level using the average frequency of conformity on negative vs. positive influence trials as a regressor. All individual subject contrasts of interest were submitted to random-effects, group-level analyses at the whole-brain level in GLMFlex (  http://mrtools.mgh.harvard.edu/index.php/GLM  _Flex), corrected for multiple comparisons. Specifically, we ran a Monte Carlo simulation using the updated version (April 2016) of the 3dFWHMx and 3dClustSim programs from the AFNI software package ( ) for each group-level contrast of interest. The simulation resulted in a minimum cluster size threshold ranging from 82–142 voxels across all contrasts of interest in the Type of Behavior Analysis and 86–129 voxels across all contrasts of interest in the Type of Influence Analysis at the whole brain level, both corresponding to   p   < .05, Family-Wise Error (FWE) corrected given a voxel-wise threshold of   p   < .005. All results are available on NeuroVault ( ) (see   https://neurovault.org/collections/QCNBXGZR/  ).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": [], "RestingState": "false",