{"StudyObjective": "Examine three aspects of giving behavior in 9–19-year-old adolescents: giving magnitude (small versus large size giving), target (giving to a friend versus unfamiliar peer), and peer presence (giving with an audience or anonymously), as well as possible differences across ages 9–19.", "fMRITasks": [{"TaskName": "Giving Task", "TaskDescription": "Participants divided 7 coins between themselves and either a friend or unfamiliar peer in an audience or anonymous context.", "DesignDetails": "Participants could give away 1, 2, or 3 out of 7 coins in the small giving condition, and 4, 5, or 6 out of 7 coins in the large giving condition. Participants could not give 0 coins, 7 coins, or make an equal split to warrant comparability between the small and large giving condition.", "Conditions": ["Small Giving", "Large Giving"], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity", "Reaction time"], "RestingState": false, "TaskDuration": "15 minutes"}], "BehavioralTasks": [{"TaskName": "Manipulation Check", "TaskDescription": "Participants rated their friend as more important than the unfamiliar peer.", "DesignDetails": "Participants rated their friend as more important (M = 6.46, SD = 0.83) than the unfamiliar peer (M = 3.37, SD = 1.47), as indicated by a paired-samples t-test, t(127) = 22.97, p < .001. Participants also liked their friend (M = 6.63, SD = 0.60) more than the unfamiliar peer (M = 4.06, SD = 0.67), t(127) = 32.11, p < .001.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["Rating of importance", "Rating of liking"]}, {"TaskName": "Giving Behavior", "TaskDescription": "Participants gave more to a friend than an unfamiliar peer, especially in the small giving condition.", "DesignDetails": "There was a main effect of giving condition, F(1, 127) = 153.23, p < .001, η² = .55, such that participants gave relatively more in the small (M = 71.39, SD = 17.47) compared to the large giving condition (M = 47.31, SD = 11.82). There was also a main effect of target, F(1, 127) = 99.97, p < .001, η² = .44, and a two-way interaction between giving condition and target, F(1, 127) = 21.41, p < .001, η² = .14. As shown in Figure 2, participants gave more to a friend (M = 64.61, SD = 11.24) than an unfamiliar peer (M = 54.09, SD = 12.13), but this difference was more pronounced in the small giving condition (M = 78.21, SD = 16.67; M = 64.57, SD = 21.46) compared to the large giving condition (M = 51.00, SD = 15.50; M = 43.61, SD = 10.55). Finally, there was a main effect of peer presence, F(1, 127) = 43.11, p < .001, η² = .25, which was qualified by a two-way interaction between giving condition and peer presence, F(1, 127) = 12.36, p = .001, η² = .09. As can be seen in Figure 2, participants gave more in the audience condition than in the anonymous condition, but the audience effect was more pronounced in the small giving condition (M = 73.39, SD = 17.35; M = 69.40, SD = 18.21) compared to the large giving condition (M = 48.02, SD = 13.03). There was no interaction between target and audience, nor was there a three-way interaction.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["Giving percentage", "Reaction time"]}, {"TaskName": "Age Effects", "TaskDescription": "Older adolescents recruited the left lateral and anterior PFC more strongly when giving small versus large amounts.", "DesignDetails": "Regarding magnitude giving condition, there was a positive linear association between age and activation in lateral and anterior PFC regions, see Table 5. To investigate the effect in the left anterior and left lateral PFC in more detail, we used the Marsbar toolbox to extract activation for these clusters. As shown in Figure 7, older adolescents recruited the left lateral and anterior PFC more strongly when giving small versus large amounts. There were no significant age effects relating to the whole brain contrasts for target or peer presence.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["Activation in lateral and anterior PFC"]}, {"TaskName": "Neural Correlates of Small vs. Large Size Giving", "TaskDescription": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions.", "DesignDetails": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions, similar to previous findings in adults. Both the mPFC and AI correlated with the most extreme choices, including minimal giving in the small giving condition (relative to generous giving), and generous giving in the large giving condition (relative to minimal giving; partly confirming hypothesis 5). These findings provide evidence for a role of the mPFC and AI in detecting norm violations or saliency ( , , , ). It should be noted that in adults, these regions were most strongly activated for generous giving independent of giving magnitude context ( ). Combined, these findings could reflect a developmental shift from multiple-context saliency detection in adolescents (i.e., minimal giving and generosity) to saliency detection for generosity in adulthood. Future studies should follow-up this hypothesis using longitudinal assessments to examine within-person changes, and novel designs to separate contextual restrictions on giving (small versus large giving conditions) with participants’ actual giving preferences (e.g., minimal or generous giving).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Neural Correlates of Familiarity and Audience Effects", "TaskDescription": "The AI was the only region showing sensitivity to these social contextual manipulations.", "DesignDetails": "To address developmental effects, we examined age differences in pre-defined ROIs. Contrary to our expectations, none of these ROI analyses resulted in developmental patterns. However, exploratory whole brain analyses revealed an age-related increase in lateral and anterior PFC activation for giving small (low-costly) versus large (high-costly) amounts. Inspection of the developmental pattern shows a shift from stronger activity for large (high-costly) giving to small (low-costly) giving. Developmental increases in LPFC activation have been well documented in prior studies on cognitive control ( ), receiving trust ( ), and emotion regulation development ( ). Apart from the dlPFC, this study showed other discrepancies between ROI and whole brain analyses. This includes no ROI peer presence effects, but whole brain effects in the fusiform and lingual gyrus; and no ROI target effects except for the mPFC, whereas whole brain analyses revealed differences in several regions of interest, such as the TPJ-IPL and lateral prefrontal cortex. These discrepancies have several broader implications. First, it shows the importance of carefully selecting ROIs. ROIs that are based on a synthesis of prior research (i.e., are created through Neurosynth) may be less anatomically and functionally demarcated than ROIs that are based on one specific study that measures the exact construct of interest. Second, it shows that even though pre-registration is useful to formulate a priori hypotheses, exploratory analyses are an important additional way to capture meaningful neural activation that might otherwise be overlooked, especially for novel experimental paradigms. This can result in interesting new hypotheses for future research. Third, it highlights the importance of performing neuroimaging research in developmental samples, such that ROIs are not only applicable to adult neural activation, but also to developing neural activation patterns. Fourth, it highlights that the field of developmental cognitive neuroscience would benefit from a consensus on how to weigh a priori, confirmatory ROI analyses versus whole brain exploratory analyses. ROI analyses boost statistical power and therefore lead to more robust results, but are only valid when the ROIs are selected carefully and appropriately for the sample of interest. Whole brain exploratory analyses can identify neural activation that was not hypothesized but are marked by decreased spatial certainty and resolution because of normalization and spatial smoothing ( ). In short, both ROI and whole brain analyses have strengths and weaknesses, which is why it is beneficial to combine both approaches in one study.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Neural Correlates of Target and Peer Presence Effects", "TaskDescription": "The AI was the only region showing sensitivity to these social contextual manipulations.", "DesignDetails": "Contrary to predictions, no target or peer presence effects were observed in the mPFC ROI. This finding seemingly contradicts a plethora of studies suggesting stronger mPFC activity in adolescents in social fMRI tasks which require mentalizing, including assessments of reading the mind in the eyes ( ), social perspective taking ( ), and reciprocity ( , ). Possibly, the social manipulations used in this study put less demands on mentalizing compared to other studies. For example, prior studies have shown that peer monitoring and influence have larger effects on both risk taking ( , ) and giving behavior ( ) than peer presence per se, and this might require different levels of mentalizing. To further explore this possibility, future studies should examine social influence effects using more diversity in peer influences. A second unexpected finding was the absence of developmental effects in the a priori defined TPJ. Prior studies have revealed TPJ activation in response to peer presence during giving ( ), and trust and reciprocity decisions ( , ). The TPJ and IPL are congeneric parietal regions comprising of sub regions that fulfill different roles in a global function of mentalizing, integrating social contexts, and thinking about self and others ( , , ). However, despite prior studies that show increased activation in the TPJ with increasing age for fair decisions ( , ), in the current study we observed no age effects in this region, possibly because the age range was relatively narrow to detect developmental differences. Exploratory whole brain analyses revealed additional activation for giving to friends versus unfamiliar peers in the SMA and dlPFC, regions often implicated in cognitive control ( ) and positive affect, including peer acceptance ( ). Prior studies have implicated the dlPFC and TPJ, which both showed sensitivity to target in this study, as possible neural facilitators of perspective taking ( ). It is an intriguing question for future research whether perspective taking can be trained, and whether this reduces in- versus out-group differentiation.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Neural Correlates of Audience Effects", "TaskDescription": "The AI was the only region showing sensitivity to these social contextual manipulations.", "DesignDetails": "The AI showed stronger activity when giving to friends compared to unfamiliar peers, but only in the audience condition, whereas activation between friends and unfamiliar peers did not differ in the anonymous condition. These findings possibly reveal that the audience condition amplifies social concern or saliency for friends ( ). Across adolescent development, the peer context becomes an important additional social consideration. For example, a prior developmental study showed that adolescents increasingly consider friends’ outcomes in their decision making throughout adolescence and into young adulthood ( ). There is by now accumulating evidence that the peer context is associated with increased reward sensitivity at the neural level, which is related to both risky and prosocial behaviors ( , , , , , ). Adolescents’ orientation and motivation to be accepted by and gain status among their peers drive many goal-directed behaviors, resulting in increased saliency in situations where this can be achieved ( ).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Neural Correlates of Interaction Between Giving Condition and Target", "TaskDescription": "The precuneus, left lingual gyrus, and right fusiform gyrus were more sensitive to the friend versus unfamiliar target, while earlier studies in adults only reported involvement of the TPJ ( ).", "DesignDetails": "The precuneus, left lingual gyrus, and right fusiform gyrus were more sensitive to the friend versus unfamiliar target, while earlier studies in adults only reported involvement of the TPJ ( ). The precuneus and left lingual gyrus were more active for the friend in the large giving condition, and higher for the unfamiliar peer in the small giving condition, which was accompanied by longer reaction times in these conditions. Prior studies have shown that the precuneus is strongly activated in situations where giving is relatively high-costly in terms of monetary or reputational outcomes, which might require additional deliberation ( , ). This would fit with a potential role of the precuneus in perspective taking ( ).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}], "BehavioralTasks": [{"TaskName": "Reaction Time", "TaskDescription": "Participants gave more to a friend versus unfamiliar peer, especially in the large giving condition.", "DesignDetails": "There was a main effect of target, F(1, 127) = 15.86, p < .001, η² = .11, which was qualified by a giving condition x target interaction, F(1, 127) = 8.37, p = .004, η² = .06. Follow-up analyses revealed no differences in RTs between the friend and unfamiliar peer in the small giving condition, F(1, 127) = 1.55, p = .215, η² = .00, M = 1038.22, SD = 176.58, M = 1028.19, SD = 192.94, but longer RTs for giving to a friend compared to an unfamiliar peer in the large giving condition, F(1, 127) = 5.60, p = .020, η² = .04, M = 1049.66, SD = 186.30, M = 1028.19, SD = 192.94 (see Figure 4).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["Reaction time"]}, {"TaskName": "Audience Effects", "TaskDescription": "Older adolescents recruited the left lateral and anterior PFC more strongly when giving small versus large amounts.", "DesignDetails": "Regarding magnitude giving condition, there was a positive linear association between age and activation in lateral and anterior PFC regions, see Table 5. To investigate the effect in the left anterior and left lateral PFC in more detail, we used the Marsbar toolbox to extract activation for these clusters. As shown in Figure 7, older adolescents recruited the left lateral and anterior PFC more strongly when giving small versus large amounts. There were no significant age effects relating to the whole brain contrasts for target or peer presence.", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["Activation in lateral and anterior PFC"]}, {"TaskName": "Interaction Between Giving Condition and Target", "TaskDescription": "The precuneus, left lingual gyrus, and right fusiform gyrus were more sensitive to the friend versus unfamiliar target, while earlier studies in adults only reported involvement of the TPJ ( ).", "DesignDetails": "The precuneus, left lingual gyrus, and right fusiform gyrus were more sensitive to the friend versus unfamiliar target, while earlier studies in adults only reported involvement of the TPJ ( ). The precuneus and left lingual gyrus were more active for the friend in the large giving condition, and higher for the unfamiliar peer in the small giving condition, which was accompanied by longer reaction times in these conditions. Prior studies have shown that the precuneus is strongly activated in situations where giving is relatively high-costly in terms of monetary or reputational outcomes, which might require additional deliberation ( , ). This would fit with a potential role of the precuneus in perspective taking ( ).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Minimal vs. Generous Giving", "TaskDescription": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions.", "DesignDetails": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions, similar to previous findings in adults. Both the mPFC and AI correlated with the most extreme choices, including minimal giving in the small giving condition (relative to generous giving), and generous giving in the large giving condition (relative to minimal giving; partly confirming hypothesis 5). These findings provide evidence for a role of the mPFC and AI in detecting norm violations or saliency ( , , , ). It should be noted that in adults, these regions were most strongly activated for generous giving independent of giving magnitude context ( ). Combined, these findings could reflect a developmental shift from multiple-context saliency detection in adolescents (i.e., minimal giving and generosity) to saliency detection for generosity in adulthood. Future studies should follow-up this hypothesis using longitudinal assessments to examine within-person changes, and novel designs to separate contextual restrictions on giving (small versus large giving conditions) with participants’ actual giving preferences (e.g., minimal or generous giving).", "Conditions": [], "TaskMetrics": ["ROI activity"]}, {"TaskName": "Generous vs. Minimal Giving", "TaskDescription": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions.", "DesignDetails": "The mPFC and AI showed dependency on giving decisions within the small and large giving conditions, similar to previous findings in adults. Both the mPFC and AI correlated with the most extreme choices, including minimal giving in the small giving condition (relative to generous giving), and generous giving in the large giving condition (relative to minimal giving; partly confirming hypothesis 5). These findings provide evidence for a role of the mPFC and AI in detecting norm violations or saliency ( , , , , ). It should be noted that in adults, these regions were most strongly activated for